# C++ Project Starter Script

This script automates the process of creating a new C++ project directory with starter files for various tools that are commonly used. The script creates a "src" directory for source files and an "include" directory for header files. By default it generates a starter "main.cpp" file, and any additional class/implementation files imputed by the user. Corresponding header files are created for each source file. A "CMakeLists.txt" starter file is created, but the script does not not run any cmake commands to generate build files. Similarly, the script generates a "Doxygen.in" config file, but it does not run any doxygen commands to generate documentation.

## Goal of this Project

This script was created to help beginners and anyone new to C++ like myself to automate the process of creating a new project directory with starter files for various tools that are commonly used in C++. By running this script, users can focus on getting up and running faster with their projects, instead of setting up project directories and files manually.

## Requirements

Before using this script, you should have the following tools installed:

- C++ compiler: The script checks if the CXX environmental variable is set. If it's not set, the script will prompt the user to enter the path to their C++ compiler. The script then checks if the compiler exists before proceeding.
- [CMake](https://cmake.org/documentation/) (optional): CMake is used to generate build/make files. While not required for the script to run, it is necessary if you want to use the build/make files generated by CMake to compile your code.
- [Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/index.html) (optional): Doxygen is used to generate documentation . While not required for the script to run, it is necessary if you want to generate HTML documentation using the configuration file generated by this script.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/doc) (optional): A version control system where you can track changes to your code over time. Not required for the script to run, it is needed if you want to use version control for your project.
- Zenity (optional but recommended): You can install Zenity via your package manager for macOS or Linux. Zenity is a GUI tool used to open a file explorer and select a project directory location.
- Visual Studio Code (recommended, but not required)
- VCPKG (recommended, but not required) Easy to use C++ package manager

**Note:** cmake and doxygen are not required for the script to run, but they are necessary to utilize them in your project.

## Using the Script

1. Download the script to your desired location.
2. Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where the script is located.
3. Run the command "chmod +x cpp_project_setup.sh" to make the script executable.
4. Run the command "./cpp_project_setup.sh" to start the script.
5. Follow the prompts to input the project directory location, project name, and source file names (if any).
6. After the script completes, you will have a new project directory with starter files.

## Setting the "CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE" environment variable

It you plan on using external libraries it is recommended that you set the "CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE" environment variable in your environment before running this script. This is because the script will detect this variable and automatically add it to the CMakeLists.txt file. This variable specifies the location of the C++ toolchain file (vcpkg.cmake) used by cmake.

### Step 1: Open the terminal on your computer.

- Navigate to your home directory "cd ~"
- If you are using fish shell, the config.fish file is located in at ~/.config/fish

### Step 2: Open one of your startup files from your home directory with a text editor

- (e.g., ".bashrc" ".zshrc" ".zprofile" ".profile")

## Step 3: Add the following line at the end of the text file

- for bash or zsh

  `export CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=~/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake`

- for fish:

  `set -x CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE ~/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake`

## Step 4: Save and close the file.

## Step 5: To apply the changes, restart your terminal

## Adding "code" Command to PATH

If you are using Visual Studio Code, you can add the "code" command to your PATH by following these steps:

1. Open Visual Studio Code.
2. Open the "Command Palette" (by pressing F1 or Cmd+Shift+P on Mac).
3. Search for "Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH" and select it.
4. Recommended to install the CMake Tools and C++ extensions packs in VS Code.

## Setting up VCPKG

- To get started with VCPKG, follow the instructions in the [official documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg#quick-start).
- VCPKG provides a simple way to install and manage C++ libraries for your projects.
- It allows you to become familiar with how to download link libraries to projects with cmake.
- A good place to keep the vcpkg folder is in your home directory
